### Conceptual Exercise

Answer the following questions below:

- What is a JWT? Answer: A JWT is short for a JSON Web Token which is basically a standarized token that can be used across different services / platforms (Think about how you once you're authorized by GMail... you can also use other google web apps like Google Docs, Google Sheets etc. without having to login again every time.

- What is the signature portion of the JWT?  What does it do? Answer: The signature is the header and the payload combined & turned into a cryptographic hash using the algorithm defined in the header. It verifies the origins and sender of the token so the reciever knows that it hasn't been tampered with. Unlike the header and payload it includes a secret key which makes it unique to the server of the sender. 

- If a JWT is intercepted, can the attacker see what's inside the payload? Answer: Yes. If a JWT is intercepted an attacker can see what's inside of the payload.. the data isn't hidden. It's reversable and anyone can view it. That's why the signature is important... because it contains a secret key which makes it difficult to fake a token.

- How can you implement authentication with a JWT?  Describe how it works at a high level. Answer: A user logs into your app and sends you a username and password. We match the username & password with a username and password in the database to verify that it is in fact a registered user. You then call jwt.sign to create a token and include a secret key for example: jwt.sign({username: "davidbroida"}, 's0m3!s3cr3tk3y!'). A request is made/sent which includes that token. Then.. the next time a request comes in with that token you call jwt.verify(token, secret key) to verify the token signature & payload is valid. If the token is empty or invalid.. throw an error. If the token is valid... allow the user to proceed with his or her desired request such as loggin in, creating, reading or updating something that is protected.

- Compare and contrast unit, integration and end-to-end tests. Answer: Unit tests are for testing each indivdual part of the code to make sure each piece is correct. It tests only the functionality of individual unites and may not catch integration errors or other larger scale issues. Integration tests go one step further and test that things work together. I remember an earlier analogy that Colt used saying "Think of a door with a lock. A unit test tests that the lock works... and integration test tests that the lock and the door work together and the lock is able to keep the door shut securely. Unit tests pay attention to the behavior of single components wheras integration tests pay attention to how multimple components work together. End to end tests take integration tests one step futher and test the entire application. End to end tests sumulate what a user is going to go through on an application by testing an applications flow from start to end( ie. clicks, dragging and dropping, double clicking etc.). Maintaining these tests get more and more complex / difficult as you move from Unit > Integration > End-to-end.

- What is a mock? What are some things you would mock? Answer: A mock is something that is used when trying to test something that is out of your control like an AJAX request or Math.random. The mock replaces or simulates that factor that is out of your control and makes it so that the test passing or failing depends entirely on the code and not anything else that is out of your control. Example: for a function that includes Math.random... in the test file set Math.random = jest.fn(() => 1).

- What is continuous integration? Answer: Continuous integration is when you constantly add in small code changes rather than merging in a big change at the end of the development process. When you push code up to GitHub, tools like Travis CI and Jenkins will test the code and reject deployment if tests fail and deploy the code if all tests are passing.

- What is an environment variable and what are they used for? Answer: Environment variables set conditions for how you want and application or software to behave in development and production. Environment variables store variabes set outside of the program for example process.env.SECRET_KEY, PORT, DATABASE_URL etc. They are used to limit the need to modify anaplication due to changes in its configuration data.. so for example, if the DATABASE_URL were to change there would be no need to change the source code, testing etc.

- What is TDD? What are some benefits and drawbacks? Answer: Test Driven Development is the practice of writing your tests first before you write your code. Afterwards, you then write the bare minimum amount of code to make the code pass and refacor. It helps you think your code ahead of time and forces good architecture. Red, Green, Refactor is the basic flow of the process. Add a test & run it and it fails "Red", make a change and get the test to pass "Green", and then Refactor the code. Ideally.. one of the main purposes is to slow things down up front so that in the long run you save time and speed up development.

- What is the value of using JSONSchema for validation? Answer: The value of using JSONSchema for validation is to make sure that bad data doesn't make it to the databse and cause problems/ headaches in the future. Servers that dont have good validation can result in crashing, incomplete data, displaying unhelpful errors etc. JSON Schema allows us to validate that the data we are sending to a database is formatted the way that we want

- What are some ways to decide which code to test? Answer: Generally speaking you should test every function in at least one way and try to think about edge cases. For example... try to think about what if scenarios such as what if the input data was empty? what if a file can't be found? What if a user inputs a non integer number etc.

- What does `RETURNING` do in SQL? When would you use it? Answer: RETURNING in SQL allows us to get values from data tables that were modified by an insert, delete or update. Without this return statement, you need to create/run another SELECT statment in order to get the values of the modified data rather than getting them immediately by using RETURNING.

- What are some differences between Web Sockets and HTTP? Answer: Websockets send updates immediately when they are available whereas with HTTP you constantly have to request updates. With HTTP the connection between the client and the server is established by the client aka a client sending a request and the server responding to the request. This can be problematic when the client needs constant updates from the server. Websockets solve this by allowing both the client and the server to push messages in both directions independently without any linking to a previous request. An example of when websockets are used is messaging services and other real-time applications like gaming, and stock-market apps when the client and server need to send data at the same time.

- Did you prefer using Flask over Express? Why or why not (there is no right
  answer here --- we want to see how you think about technology)?
  Answer: I very much preferred using Flask over express. Python in general I found very easy to understand and write on my own.. off the top of my head without needing to reference and sample code or solutions for guidance. Express on the other hand.. i find much less intuitive. Even if I can understand how/why the code was written.. I am still finding it very difficult to write off the top of my head without any help / guidance. Overall, I think that it was much easier to learn Flask and I am still much more comfortable with it than I am with Express and Node.JS.
